README.md, before:

# [Data Structures & Algorithms](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/README.md)

This repository contains slides, code and notes for the 2023-2024 presentation of the Data Structures & Algorithms
module at the University of Sussex.

## Lectures

In the [`lectures/`](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/lectures/README.md) directory you can find
this module's lecture slides.


## Labs

In the [`labs/`](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/README.md) directory you can find this
module's lab exercises.

These are a combination of code and accompanying notes.

So that you can edit and run the code, you should clone this repository.
There are multiple ways to do this, but the best is to open a terminal and run:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4 dsa
```

You can then run
```shell
cd dsa
```
to move into your local version of this repository.

Note that whenever a command is mentioned (with the exception of the two above), such as
```shell
python labs singly_linked_list
```
it's supposed to be run from here, i.e. from within the top level `dsa/` directory (or whatever you rename to).

However, you will likely find you have a better experience reading the lab notes (which are `README.md` files in the
appropriate directories) if you do it through the GitHub online interface (i.e. by visiting
[`github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4`](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/README.md) in a web
browser, which is probably the way you're reading this one), as most people prefer to read the rendered Markdown
rather than the raw files themselves (plus you can use the hyperlinks to easily move between places).

Commit message:

Add note about the lecture slides being on Canvas

README.md, after:

# [Data Structures & Algorithms](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/README.md)

This repository contains slides, code and notes for the 2023-2024 presentation of the Data Structures & Algorithms
module at the University of Sussex.

## Lectures

PDFs of the lecture slides are available on Canvas for you to download.


## Labs

In the [`labs/`](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/labs/README.md) directory you can find this
module's lab exercises.

These are a combination of code and accompanying notes.

So that you can edit and run the code, you should clone this repository.
There are multiple ways to do this, but the best is to open a terminal and run:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4 dsa
```

You can then run
```shell
cd dsa
```
to move into your local version of this repository.

Note that whenever a command is mentioned (with the exception of the two above), such as
```shell
python labs singly_linked_list
```
it's supposed to be run from here, i.e. from within the top level `dsa/` directory (or whatever you rename to).

However, you will likely find you have a better experience reading the lab notes (which are `README.md` files in the
appropriate directories) if you do it through the GitHub online interface (i.e. by visiting
[`github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4`](https://github.com/bertie-wheen/dsa-2023-4/blob/trunk/README.md) in a web
browser, which is probably the way you're reading this one), as most people prefer to read the rendered Markdown
rather than the raw files themselves (plus you can use the hyperlinks to easily move between places).
